---
layout: post
title: World History and Me
category: posts
---

When I was In school, I didn't understand people's fascination for history, because at that time, history is all about remembering names, location and dates. As far as I remember, I remember studying only Indian history most of it is of struggle for independence or "great" kings of India who planted trees and bit of European history during world war.

Now, one of my favourite  topic is World History ( don't ask me when and where of XYZ king ). Unfortunately ( or fortunately), Most of the sources for world history I found initially were western world centric, All  I read about is Greek Roman Empire, Christianity, renaissance and Napoleonic and world wars. There is a chance that I was fascinated by evolution of European history and people, that I was not looking for other's history. Come on, who doesn't like to read about world war 2 and Nazi ideology?  ( or is it just me? )

But lot more is going on in rest of the world. Lot more interesting things than renaissance or black death. Do you know history of Americas before Europeans landed on it  and killed the indigenous people? ( Interesting phenomenon is that it is done by germs, not wars ). Do you know history of Chinese and their long line of dynasties ? Do you know about how Islam spread like wildfire in middle east? Do you know about "The Mongols" who conquered almost half of world ?

Unlike most of the people think, it is not irrelevant in current times. We need to understand why people of particular people behave and the way thy do and what will happen if there is contradiction ( something similar to "Freedom of speech" in west  and "Respect" in east )

To be continued..


---

If you have any questions, follow and ping me on Twitter- I'm
[@praveenpenumaka][twitter].